src/docs/svelte/02-runes/07-$inspect.md, before:

---
title: $inspect
---

> [!NOTE] `$inspect` only works during development. In a production build it becomes a noop.

The `$inspect` rune is roughly equivalent to `console.log`, with the exception that it will re-run whenever its argument changes. `$inspect` tracks reactive state deeply, meaning that updating something inside an object or array using fine-grained reactivity will cause it to re-fire ([demo](/playground/untitled#H4sIAAAAAAAACkWQ0YqDQAxFfyUMhSotdZ-tCvu431AXtGOqQ2NmmMm0LOK_r7Utfby5JzeXTOpiCIPKT5PidkSVq2_n1F7Jn3uIcEMSXHSw0evHpAjaGydVzbUQCmgbWaCETZBWMPlKj29nxBDaHj_edkAiu12JhdkYDg61JGvE_s2nR8gyuBuiJZuDJTyQ7eE-IEOzog1YD80Lb0APLfdYc5F9qnFxjiKWwbImo6_llKRQVs-2u91c_bD2OCJLkT3JZasw7KLA2XCX31qKWE6vIzNk1fKE0XbmYrBTufiI8-_8D2cUWBA_AQAA)):

```svelte
<script>
	let count = $state(0);
	let message = $state('hello');

	$inspect(count, message); // will console.log when `count` or `message` change
</script>

<button onclick={() => count++}>Increment</button>
<input bind:value={message} />
```

## $inspect(...).with

`$inspect` returns a property `with`, which you can invoke with a callback, which will then be invoked instead of `console.log`. The first argument to the callback is either `"init"` or `"update"`; subsequent arguments are the values passed to `$inspect` ([demo](/playground/untitled#H4sIAAAAAAAACkVQ24qDMBD9lSEUqlTqPlsj7ON-w7pQG8c2VCchmVSK-O-bKMs-DefKYRYx6BG9qL4XQd2EohKf1opC8Nsm4F84MkbsTXAqMbVXTltuWmp5RAZlAjFIOHjuGLOP_BKVqB00eYuKs82Qn2fNjyxLtcWeyUE2sCRry3qATQIpJRyD7WPVMf9TW-7xFu53dBcoSzAOrsqQNyOe2XUKr0Xi5kcMvdDB2wSYO-I9vKazplV1-T-d6ltgNgSG1KjVUy7ZtmdbdjqtzRcphxMS1-XubOITJtPrQWMvKnYB15_1F7KKadA_AQAA)):

```svelte
<script>
	let count = $state(0);

	$inspect(count).with((type, count) => {
		if (type === 'update') {
			debugger; // or `console.trace`, or whatever you want
		}
	});
</script>

<button onclick={() => count++}>Increment</button>
```

A convenient way to find the origin of some change is to pass `console.trace` to `with`:

```js
// @errors: 2304
$inspect(stuff).with(console.trace);
```

## $inspect.trace(...)

This rune, added in 5.14, causes the surrounding function to be _traced_ in development. Any time the function re-runs as part of an [effect]($effect) or a [derived]($derived), information will be printed to the console about which pieces of reactive state caused the effect to fire.

```svelte
<script>
	import { doSomeWork } from './elsewhere';

	$effect(() => {
		+++$inspect.trace();+++
		doSomeWork();
	});
</script>
```

`$inspect.trace` takes an optional first argument which will be used as the label.

Commit message:

docs: Update Svelte and SvelteKit documentation files
Minor documentation updates across Svelte and SvelteKit documentation, including minor formatting and content adjustments to various markdown files in the documentation structure.

src/docs/svelte/02-runes/07-$inspect.md, after:

---
title: '"$inspect"'
description: >-
  The $inspect rune is roughly equivalent to console.log, with the exception
  that it will re-run whenever its argument changes. $inspect tracks reactive
  state deeply, meaning that updating something inside an object or array using
  fine-grained reactivity will cause it to re-fire
  ([demo](/playground/untitledH4sIAAAAAAAACkWQ0YqDQAxFfyUMhSotdZ-tCvu431AXtGOqQ2NmmMm0LOK_r7Utfby5JzeXTOpiCIPKT5PidkSVq2_n1F7Jn3uIcEMSXHSw0evHpAjaGydVzbUQCmgbWaCETZBWMPlKj29nxBDaHj_edkAiu12JhdkYDg61JGvE_s2nR8gyuBuiJZuDJTyQ7eE-IEOzog1YD80Lb0APLfdYc5F9qnFxjiKWwbImo6_llKRQVs-2u91c_bD2OCJLkT3JZasw7KLA2XCX31qKWE6vIzNk1fKE0XbmYrBTufiI8-_8D2cUWBA_AQAA)):
category: 02-runes
tags:
  - svelte
  - 02-runes
  - $inspect
related:
  - index.md
  - 99-legacy/index.md
  - 99-legacy/40-legacy-component-api.md
code_categories:
  - typescript
  - javascript
difficulty: intermediate
last_updated: '2025-02-09'
---

> [!NOTE] `$inspect` only works during development. In a production build it becomes a noop.

The `$inspect` rune is roughly equivalent to `console.log`, with the exception that it will re-run whenever its argument changes. `$inspect` tracks reactive state deeply, meaning that updating something inside an object or array using fine-grained reactivity will cause it to re-fire ([demo](/playground/untitled#H4sIAAAAAAAACkWQ0YqDQAxFfyUMhSotdZ-tCvu431AXtGOqQ2NmmMm0LOK_r7Utfby5JzeXTOpiCIPKT5PidkSVq2_n1F7Jn3uIcEMSXHSw0evHpAjaGydVzbUQCmgbWaCETZBWMPlKj29nxBDaHj_edkAiu12JhdkYDg61JGvE_s2nR8gyuBuiJZuDJTyQ7eE-IEOzog1YD80Lb0APLfdYc5F9qnFxjiKWwbImo6_llKRQVs-2u91c_bD2OCJLkT3JZasw7KLA2XCX31qKWE6vIzNk1fKE0XbmYrBTufiI8-_8D2cUWBA_AQAA)):

```svelte
<script>
	let count = $state(0);
	let message = $state('hello');

	$inspect(count, message); // will console.log when `count` or `message` change
</script>

<button onclick={() => count++}>Increment</button>
<input bind:value={message} />
```

## $inspect(...).with

`$inspect` returns a property `with`, which you can invoke with a callback, which will then be invoked instead of `console.log`. The first argument to the callback is either `"init"` or `"update"`; subsequent arguments are the values passed to `$inspect` ([demo](/playground/untitled#H4sIAAAAAAAACkVQ24qDMBD9lSEUqlTqPlsj7ON-w7pQG8c2VCchmVSK-O-bKMs-DefKYRYx6BG9qL4XQd2EohKf1opC8Nsm4F84MkbsTXAqMbVXTltuWmp5RAZlAjFIOHjuGLOP_BKVqB00eYuKs82Qn2fNjyxLtcWeyUE2sCRry3qATQIpJRyD7WPVMf9TW-7xFu53dBcoSzAOrsqQNyOe2XUKr0Xi5kcMvdDB2wSYO-I9vKazplV1-T-d6ltgNgSG1KjVUy7ZtmdbdjqtzRcphxMS1-XubOITJtPrQWMvKnYB15_1F7KKadA_AQAA)):

```svelte
<script>
	let count = $state(0);

	$inspect(count).with((type, count) => {
		if (type === 'update') {
			debugger; // or `console.trace`, or whatever you want
		}
	});
</script>

<button onclick={() => count++}>Increment</button>
```

A convenient way to find the origin of some change is to pass `console.trace` to `with`:

```js
// @errors: 2304
$inspect(stuff).with(console.trace);
```

## $inspect.trace(...)

This rune, added in 5.14, causes the surrounding function to be _traced_ in development. Any time the function re-runs as part of an [effect]($effect) or a [derived]($derived), information will be printed to the console about which pieces of reactive state caused the effect to fire.

```svelte
<script>
	import { doSomeWork } from './elsewhere';

	$effect(() => {
		+++$inspect.trace();+++
		doSomeWork();
	});
</script>
```

`$inspect.trace` takes an optional first argument which will be used as the label.
