src/docs/svelte/04-styling/01-scoped-styles.md, before:

---
title: Scoped styles
---

Svelte components can include a `<style>` element containing CSS that belongs to the component. This CSS is _scoped_ by default, meaning that styles will not apply to any elements on the page outside the component in question.

This works by adding a class to affected elements, which is based on a hash of the component styles (e.g. `svelte-123xyz`).

```svelte
<style>
	p {
		/* this will only affect <p> elements in this component */
		color: burlywood;
	}
</style>
```

## Specificity

Each scoped selector receives a [specificity](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/Specificity) increase of 0-1-0, as a result of the scoping class (e.g. `.svelte-123xyz`) being added to the selector. This means that (for example) a `p` selector defined in a component will take precedence over a `p` selector defined in a global stylesheet, even if the global stylesheet is loaded later.

In some cases, the scoping class must be added to a selector multiple times, but after the first occurrence it is added with `:where(.svelte-xyz123)` in order to not increase specificity further.

## Scoped keyframes

If a component defines `@keyframes`, the name is scoped to the component using the same hashing approach. Any `animation` rules in the component will be similarly adjusted:

```svelte
<style>
	.bouncy {
		animation: bounce 10s;
	}

	/* these keyframes are only accessible inside this component */
	@keyframes bounce {
		/* ... */
	}
</style>
```

Commit message:

docs: Update Svelte and SvelteKit documentation files
Minor documentation updates across Svelte and SvelteKit documentation, including minor formatting and content adjustments to various markdown files in the documentation structure.

src/docs/svelte/04-styling/01-scoped-styles.md, after:

---
title: '"Scoped styles"'
description: >-
  This works by adding a class to affected elements, which is based on a hash of
  the component styles (e.g. svelte-123xyz).
category: 04-styling
tags:
  - svelte
  - 04-styling
  - scoped
  - styles
related:
  - index.md
  - 99-legacy/index.md
  - 99-legacy/40-legacy-component-api.md
code_categories:
  - typescript
difficulty: intermediate
last_updated: '2025-02-09'
---

Svelte components can include a `<style>` element containing CSS that belongs to the component. This CSS is _scoped_ by default, meaning that styles will not apply to any elements on the page outside the component in question.

This works by adding a class to affected elements, which is based on a hash of the component styles (e.g. `svelte-123xyz`).

```svelte
<style>
	p {
		/* this will only affect <p> elements in this component */
		color: burlywood;
	}
</style>
```

## Specificity

Each scoped selector receives a [specificity](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/Specificity) increase of 0-1-0, as a result of the scoping class (e.g. `.svelte-123xyz`) being added to the selector. This means that (for example) a `p` selector defined in a component will take precedence over a `p` selector defined in a global stylesheet, even if the global stylesheet is loaded later.

In some cases, the scoping class must be added to a selector multiple times, but after the first occurrence it is added with `:where(.svelte-xyz123)` in order to not increase specificity further.

## Scoped keyframes

If a component defines `@keyframes`, the name is scoped to the component using the same hashing approach. Any `animation` rules in the component will be similarly adjusted:

```svelte
<style>
	.bouncy {
		animation: bounce 10s;
	}

	/* these keyframes are only accessible inside this component */
	@keyframes bounce {
		/* ... */
	}
</style>
```
