src/docs/svelte/05-special-elements/06-svelte-element.md, before:

---
title: <svelte:element>
---

```svelte
<svelte:element this={expression} />
```

The `<svelte:element>` element lets you render an element that is unknown at author time, for example because it comes from a CMS. Any properties and event listeners present will be applied to the element.

The only supported binding is `bind:this`, since Svelte's built-in bindings do not work with generic elements.

If `this` has a nullish value, the element and its children will not be rendered.

If `this` is the name of a [void element](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Glossary/Void_element) (e.g., `br`) and `<svelte:element>` has child elements, a runtime error will be thrown in development mode:

```svelte
<script>
	let tag = $state('hr');
</script>

<svelte:element this={tag}>
	This text cannot appear inside an hr element
</svelte:element>
```

Svelte tries its best to infer the correct namespace from the element's surroundings, but it's not always possible. You can make it explicit with an `xmlns` attribute:

```svelte
<svelte:element this={tag} xmlns="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg" />
```

`this` needs to be a valid DOM element tag, things like `#text` or `svelte:head` will not work.

Commit message:

docs: Update Svelte and SvelteKit documentation files
Minor documentation updates across Svelte and SvelteKit documentation, including minor formatting and content adjustments to various markdown files in the documentation structure.

src/docs/svelte/05-special-elements/06-svelte-element.md, after:

---
title: '"<svelte:element>"'
description: >-
  The <svelte:element> element lets you render an element that is unknown at
  author time, for example because it comes from a CMS. Any properties and event
  listeners present will be applied to the element.
category: 05-special-elements
tags:
  - svelte
  - 05-special-elements
  - element
related:
  - index.md
  - 99-legacy/index.md
  - 99-legacy/40-legacy-component-api.md
code_categories:
  - typescript
difficulty: intermediate
last_updated: '2025-02-09'
---

```svelte
<svelte:element this={expression} />
```

The `<svelte:element>` element lets you render an element that is unknown at author time, for example because it comes from a CMS. Any properties and event listeners present will be applied to the element.

The only supported binding is `bind:this`, since Svelte's built-in bindings do not work with generic elements.

If `this` has a nullish value, the element and its children will not be rendered.

If `this` is the name of a [void element](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Glossary/Void_element) (e.g., `br`) and `<svelte:element>` has child elements, a runtime error will be thrown in development mode:

```svelte
<script>
	let tag = $state('hr');
</script>

<svelte:element this={tag}>
	This text cannot appear inside an hr element
</svelte:element>
```

Svelte tries its best to infer the correct namespace from the element's surroundings, but it's not always possible. You can make it explicit with an `xmlns` attribute:

```svelte
<svelte:element this={tag} xmlns="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg" />
```

`this` needs to be a valid DOM element tag, things like `#text` or `svelte:head` will not work.
