src/docs/kit/10-getting-started/40-web-standards.md, before:

---
title: Web standards
---

Throughout this documentation, you'll see references to the standard [Web APIs](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API) that SvelteKit builds on top of. Rather than reinventing the wheel, we _use the platform_, which means your existing web development skills are applicable to SvelteKit. Conversely, time spent learning SvelteKit will help you be a better web developer elsewhere.

These APIs are available in all modern browsers and in many non-browser environments like Cloudflare Workers, Deno, and Vercel Functions. During development, and in [adapters](adapters) for Node-based environments (including AWS Lambda), they're made available via polyfills where necessary (for now, that is — Node is rapidly adding support for more web standards).

In particular, you'll get comfortable with the following:

## Fetch APIs

SvelteKit uses [`fetch`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/fetch) for getting data from the network. It's available in [hooks](hooks) and [server routes](routing#server) as well as in the browser.

> [!NOTE] A special version of `fetch` is available in [`load`](load) functions, [server hooks](hooks#Server-hooks) and [API routes](routing#server) for invoking endpoints directly during server-side rendering, without making an HTTP call, while preserving credentials. (To make credentialled fetches in server-side code outside `load`, you must explicitly pass `cookie` and/or `authorization` headers.) It also allows you to make relative requests, whereas server-side `fetch` normally requires a fully qualified URL.

Besides `fetch` itself, the [Fetch API](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Fetch_API) includes the following interfaces:

### Request

An instance of [`Request`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Request) is accessible in [hooks](hooks) and [server routes](routing#server) as `event.request`. It contains useful methods like `request.json()` and `request.formData()` for getting data that was posted to an endpoint.

### Response

An instance of [`Response`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Response) is returned from `await fetch(...)` and handlers in `+server.js` files. Fundamentally, a SvelteKit app is a machine for turning a `Request` into a `Response`.

### Headers

The [`Headers`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Headers) interface allows you to read incoming `request.headers` and set outgoing `response.headers`. For example, you can get the `request.headers` as shown below, and use the [`json` convenience function](@sveltejs-kit#json) to send modified `response.headers`:

```js
// @errors: 2461
/// file: src/routes/what-is-my-user-agent/+server.js
import { json } from '@sveltejs/kit';

/** @type {import('./$types').RequestHandler} */
export function GET({ request }) {
	// log all headers
	console.log(...request.headers);

	// create a JSON Response using a header we received
	return json({
		// retrieve a specific header
		userAgent: request.headers.get('user-agent')
	}, {
		// set a header on the response
		headers: { 'x-custom-header': 'potato' }
	});
}
```

## FormData

When dealing with HTML native form submissions you'll be working with [`FormData`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/FormData) objects.

```js
// @errors: 2461
/// file: src/routes/hello/+server.js
import { json } from '@sveltejs/kit';

/** @type {import('./$types').RequestHandler} */
export async function POST(event) {
	const body = await event.request.formData();

	// log all fields
	console.log([...body]);

	return json({
		// get a specific field's value
		name: body.get('name') ?? 'world'
	});
}
```

## Stream APIs

Most of the time, your endpoints will return complete data, as in the `userAgent` example above. Sometimes, you may need to return a response that's too large to fit in memory in one go, or is delivered in chunks, and for this the platform provides [streams](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Streams_API) — [ReadableStream](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/ReadableStream), [WritableStream](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/WritableStream) and [TransformStream](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/TransformStream).

## URL APIs

URLs are represented by the [`URL`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/URL) interface, which includes useful properties like `origin` and `pathname` (and, in the browser, `hash`). This interface shows up in various places — `event.url` in [hooks](hooks) and [server routes](routing#server), [`page.url`]($app-state) in [pages](routing#page), `from` and `to` in [`beforeNavigate` and `afterNavigate`]($app-navigation) and so on.

### URLSearchParams

Wherever you encounter a URL, you can access query parameters via `url.searchParams`, which is an instance of [`URLSearchParams`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/URLSearchParams):

```js
// @filename: ambient.d.ts
declare global {
	const url: URL;
}

export {};

// @filename: index.js
// ---cut---
const foo = url.searchParams.get('foo');
```

## Web Crypto

The [Web Crypto API](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Web_Crypto_API) is made available via the `crypto` global. It's used internally for [Content Security Policy](configuration#csp) headers, but you can also use it for things like generating UUIDs:

```js
const uuid = crypto.randomUUID();
```

Commit message:

docs: Update Svelte and SvelteKit documentation files
Minor documentation updates across Svelte and SvelteKit documentation, including minor formatting and content adjustments to various markdown files in the documentation structure.

src/docs/kit/10-getting-started/40-web-standards.md, after:

---
title: '"Web standards"'
description: >-
  These APIs are available in all modern browsers and in many non-browser
  environments like Cloudflare Workers, Deno, and Vercel Functions. During
  development, and in [adapters](adapters) for Node-based environments
  (including AWS Lambda), they're made available via polyfills where necessary
  (for now, that is — Node is rapidly adding support for more web standards).
category: 10-getting-started
tags:
  - kit
  - 10-getting-started
  - web
  - standards
related:
  - index.md
  - 98-reference/index.md
  - 98-reference/54-types.md
code_categories:
  - typescript
  - javascript
  - server
difficulty: intermediate
last_updated: '2025-02-09'
---

Throughout this documentation, you'll see references to the standard [Web APIs](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API) that SvelteKit builds on top of. Rather than reinventing the wheel, we _use the platform_, which means your existing web development skills are applicable to SvelteKit. Conversely, time spent learning SvelteKit will help you be a better web developer elsewhere.

These APIs are available in all modern browsers and in many non-browser environments like Cloudflare Workers, Deno, and Vercel Functions. During development, and in [adapters](adapters) for Node-based environments (including AWS Lambda), they're made available via polyfills where necessary (for now, that is — Node is rapidly adding support for more web standards).

In particular, you'll get comfortable with the following:

## Fetch APIs

SvelteKit uses [`fetch`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/fetch) for getting data from the network. It's available in [hooks](hooks) and [server routes](routing#server) as well as in the browser.

> [!NOTE] A special version of `fetch` is available in [`load`](load) functions, [server hooks](hooks#Server-hooks) and [API routes](routing#server) for invoking endpoints directly during server-side rendering, without making an HTTP call, while preserving credentials. (To make credentialled fetches in server-side code outside `load`, you must explicitly pass `cookie` and/or `authorization` headers.) It also allows you to make relative requests, whereas server-side `fetch` normally requires a fully qualified URL.

Besides `fetch` itself, the [Fetch API](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Fetch_API) includes the following interfaces:

### Request

An instance of [`Request`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Request) is accessible in [hooks](hooks) and [server routes](routing#server) as `event.request`. It contains useful methods like `request.json()` and `request.formData()` for getting data that was posted to an endpoint.

### Response

An instance of [`Response`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Response) is returned from `await fetch(...)` and handlers in `+server.js` files. Fundamentally, a SvelteKit app is a machine for turning a `Request` into a `Response`.

### Headers

The [`Headers`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Headers) interface allows you to read incoming `request.headers` and set outgoing `response.headers`. For example, you can get the `request.headers` as shown below, and use the [`json` convenience function](@sveltejs-kit#json) to send modified `response.headers`:

```js
// @errors: 2461
/// file: src/routes/what-is-my-user-agent/+server.js
import { json } from '@sveltejs/kit';

/** @type {import('./$types').RequestHandler} */
export function GET({ request }) {
	// log all headers
	console.log(...request.headers);

	// create a JSON Response using a header we received
	return json({
		// retrieve a specific header
		userAgent: request.headers.get('user-agent')
	}, {
		// set a header on the response
		headers: { 'x-custom-header': 'potato' }
	});
}
```

## FormData

When dealing with HTML native form submissions you'll be working with [`FormData`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/FormData) objects.

```js
// @errors: 2461
/// file: src/routes/hello/+server.js
import { json } from '@sveltejs/kit';

/** @type {import('./$types').RequestHandler} */
export async function POST(event) {
	const body = await event.request.formData();

	// log all fields
	console.log([...body]);

	return json({
		// get a specific field's value
		name: body.get('name') ?? 'world'
	});
}
```

## Stream APIs

Most of the time, your endpoints will return complete data, as in the `userAgent` example above. Sometimes, you may need to return a response that's too large to fit in memory in one go, or is delivered in chunks, and for this the platform provides [streams](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Streams_API) — [ReadableStream](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/ReadableStream), [WritableStream](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/WritableStream) and [TransformStream](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/TransformStream).

## URL APIs

URLs are represented by the [`URL`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/URL) interface, which includes useful properties like `origin` and `pathname` (and, in the browser, `hash`). This interface shows up in various places — `event.url` in [hooks](hooks) and [server routes](routing#server), [`page.url`]($app-state) in [pages](routing#page), `from` and `to` in [`beforeNavigate` and `afterNavigate`]($app-navigation) and so on.

### URLSearchParams

Wherever you encounter a URL, you can access query parameters via `url.searchParams`, which is an instance of [`URLSearchParams`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/URLSearchParams):

```js
// @filename: ambient.d.ts
declare global {
	const url: URL;
}

export {};

// @filename: index.js
// ---cut---
const foo = url.searchParams.get('foo');
```

## Web Crypto

The [Web Crypto API](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Web_Crypto_API) is made available via the `crypto` global. It's used internally for [Content Security Policy](configuration#csp) headers, but you can also use it for things like generating UUIDs:

```js
const uuid = crypto.randomUUID();
```
