src/docs/svelte/99-legacy/02-legacy-reactive-assignments.md, before:

---
title: Reactive $: statements
---

In runes mode, reactions to state updates are handled with the [`$derived`]($derived) and [`$effect`]($effect) runes.

In legacy mode, any top-level statement (i.e. not inside a block or a function) can be made reactive by prefixing it with a `$:` [label](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Statements/label). These statements run after other code in the `<script>` and before the component markup is rendered, then whenever the values that they depend on change.

```svelte
<script>
	let a = 1;
	let b = 2;

	// this is a 'reactive statement', and it will re-run
	// when `a`, `b` or `sum` change
	$: console.log(`${a} + ${b} = ${sum}`);

	// this is a 'reactive assignment' — `sum` will be
	// recalculated when `a` or `b` change. It is
	// not necessary to declare `sum` separately
	$: sum = a + b;
</script>
```

Statements are ordered _topologically_ by their dependencies and their assignments: since the `console.log` statement depends on `sum`, `sum` is calculated first even though it appears later in the source.

Multiple statements can be combined by putting them in a block:

```js
// @noErrors
$: {
	// recalculate `total` when `items` changes
	total = 0;

	for (const item of items) {
		total += item.value;
	}
}
```

The left-hand side of a reactive assignments can be an identifier, or it can be a destructuring assignment:

```js
// @noErrors
$: ({ larry, moe, curly } = stooges);
```

## Understanding dependencies

The dependencies of a `$:` statement are determined at compile time — they are whichever variables are referenced (but not assigned to) inside the statement.

In other words, a statement like this will _not_ re-run when `count` changes, because the compiler cannot 'see' the dependency:

```js
// @noErrors
let count = 0;
let double = () => count * 2;

$: doubled = double();
```

Similarly, topological ordering will fail if dependencies are referenced indirectly: `z` will never update, because `y` is not considered 'dirty' when the update occurs. Moving `$: z = y` below `$: setY(x)` will fix it:

```svelte
<script>
	let x = 0;
	let y = 0;

	$: z = y;
	$: setY(x);

	function setY(value) {
		y = value;
	}
</script>
```

## Browser-only code

Reactive statements run during server-side rendering as well as in the browser. This means that any code that should only run in the browser must be wrapped in an `if` block:

```js
// @noErrors
$: if (browser) {
	document.title = title;
}
```

Commit message:

docs: Update Svelte and SvelteKit documentation files
Minor documentation updates across Svelte and SvelteKit documentation, including minor formatting and content adjustments to various markdown files in the documentation structure.

src/docs/svelte/99-legacy/02-legacy-reactive-assignments.md, after:

---
title: '"Reactive $: statements"'
description: >-
  In legacy mode, any top-level statement (i.e. not inside a block or a
  function) can be made reactive by prefixing it with a $:
  [label](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Statements/label).
  These statements run after other code in the <script> and before the component
  markup is rendered, then whenever the values that they depend on change.
category: 99-legacy
tags:
  - svelte
  - 99-legacy
  - legacy
  - reactive
  - assignments
related:
  - index.md
  - 99-legacy/index.md
  - 99-legacy/40-legacy-component-api.md
code_categories:
  - typescript
  - javascript
  - server
difficulty: intermediate
last_updated: '2025-02-09'
---

In runes mode, reactions to state updates are handled with the [`$derived`]($derived) and [`$effect`]($effect) runes.

In legacy mode, any top-level statement (i.e. not inside a block or a function) can be made reactive by prefixing it with a `$:` [label](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Statements/label). These statements run after other code in the `<script>` and before the component markup is rendered, then whenever the values that they depend on change.

```svelte
<script>
	let a = 1;
	let b = 2;

	// this is a 'reactive statement', and it will re-run
	// when `a`, `b` or `sum` change
	$: console.log(`${a} + ${b} = ${sum}`);

	// this is a 'reactive assignment' — `sum` will be
	// recalculated when `a` or `b` change. It is
	// not necessary to declare `sum` separately
	$: sum = a + b;
</script>
```

Statements are ordered _topologically_ by their dependencies and their assignments: since the `console.log` statement depends on `sum`, `sum` is calculated first even though it appears later in the source.

Multiple statements can be combined by putting them in a block:

```js
// @noErrors
$: {
	// recalculate `total` when `items` changes
	total = 0;

	for (const item of items) {
		total += item.value;
	}
}
```

The left-hand side of a reactive assignments can be an identifier, or it can be a destructuring assignment:

```js
// @noErrors
$: ({ larry, moe, curly } = stooges);
```

## Understanding dependencies

The dependencies of a `$:` statement are determined at compile time — they are whichever variables are referenced (but not assigned to) inside the statement.

In other words, a statement like this will _not_ re-run when `count` changes, because the compiler cannot 'see' the dependency:

```js
// @noErrors
let count = 0;
let double = () => count * 2;

$: doubled = double();
```

Similarly, topological ordering will fail if dependencies are referenced indirectly: `z` will never update, because `y` is not considered 'dirty' when the update occurs. Moving `$: z = y` below `$: setY(x)` will fix it:

```svelte
<script>
	let x = 0;
	let y = 0;

	$: z = y;
	$: setY(x);

	function setY(value) {
		y = value;
	}
</script>
```

## Browser-only code

Reactive statements run during server-side rendering as well as in the browser. This means that any code that should only run in the browser must be wrapped in an `if` block:

```js
// @noErrors
$: if (browser) {
	document.title = title;
}
```
